Documentation - How to label a Pull Request (#210)
Babylonpartners/ios-playbook: Cookbook/Technical-Documents/LabelsInPRs.md

# How to label a Pull Request

> We use labels in our Pull Requests to be able to categorize and prioritize our work. Some specific labels are also used to trigger our CI jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use labels in our Pull Requests to be able to categorize and prioritize our work. Some are also used to trigger our CI jobs.
```

## 1. The labels

> At the moment our labels can be separated into 4 groups:

Reviewer 2: This list has 6 items though, not 4 😅 

```suggestion
At the moment our labels can be separated into the following groups:
```

> At the moment we have 26 labels in our repository. They can be separated into 4 groups:

Reviewer: I would remove the `26` number (it is 25 now as the linter one is gone) as it is too prone to become outdated. I would just leaving the four groups:

```suggestion
At the moment our labels can be separated into 4 groups:
```

- [Product verticals](#product-verticals)

- [Project horizontals](#project-horizontals)

- [Branding](#branding)

- [Status](#status)

- [Emergency](#emergency)

> - [Extra](#extra)

Reviewer 2: I know it's outside the scope of this PR and doc, but wondering if we should actually make those groups appear as prefix or emojis in the label names?

In multiple other repos, labels have a prefix to mention the group they belong to. For example:

 - [in SwiftGen, labels are prefixed with `difficulty:` / `status:` or `type:`](https://github.com/SwiftGen/SwiftGen/labels)
 - [in CocoaPods, they're prefixed `d1:`/`d2:`/`d3:` for difficulty level, `s1:`/`s2:`/`s3:`/... for various statuses, `t1:`/`t2:`/`t3:`/... for PR type](https://github.com/CocoaPods/cocoapods/labels)...

Of course renaming the ones used by the bot would require to update the bots too, so those ones might require some care, but otherwise it might help consistency –and also help understanding of the role of those labels and have them grouped alphabetically in the list– to use a similar idea in our repo? (maybe just an emoji as prefix – although I'm wondering if some emojis are not the cause of the GitHub error which sometimes happen and make us prefer to add the labels _after_ the PR is created?). wdyt?

Author: This is a great idea, I actually thought about that while I was writing this documentation. But as you said, this is out of scope of this PR 😛 However, I can use this as an excuse to work on that later 🙂

> ### <a name="product-verticals"></a>Product verticals

Reviewer 2: [tip] you don't need to explicitly create HTML anchors with `<a name>`: The rendered markdown automatically creates HTML anchors for every section title (the anchor is the title, lowercased and with dashes in place of spaces)

Author: Good to know 😄🤦‍♀

Author: This doesn't seem to work if I remove it 😟

Reviewer 2: This does seems to work for me though.

e,g, if I go back to your cdf974958732698b7cb7bc986211655bad22580a commit and ask GitHub to show me the rendered file, I can [jump to `#product-verticals` anchor](https://github.com/Babylonpartners/ios-playbook/blob/cdf974958732698b7cb7bc986211655bad22580a/Cookbook/Technical-Documents/LabelsInPRs.md#product-verticals) even though you removed the `a name` tags in that commit 🤔

A product vertical corresponds to a big feature of the product. 

> - <span style="background-color:#2BBBBB; color:black; font-weight:600">Health Management 🍄</span> - any work done in the health management vertical

Reviewer 2: I just realized that those `background-color`/`color`/`font-weight` CSS styles don't render on GitHub, so despite all the effort you put in matching the label colors and making them look nice, it won't be visible in the document 😢 

Not sure if there's any official alternative though, nothing official in the GitHub-Flavored Markdown (GFM) documentation.

Only workaround that I've found is to use a placeholder image service, like this:

```md
 ![#2bbbbb](https://placehold.it/30x15/2bbbbb?text=+) `Health Management 🍄`
```
Which renders like this:

* ![#2bbbbb](https://placehold.it/30x15/2bbbbb?text=+) `Health Management 🍄`

Not ideal, but since GitHub markdown don't support background/foreground colors anyway...

Or alternatively we can just accept that those won't be nicely colored (but then maybe we should still wrap the label names between backticks to clearly isolate them from the rest of the text. A third alternative would be to convert those bullet points to a markdown table (column 1 = label name, column 2 = description)

Reviewer 2: @AnnKatF Ohhh wait better solution to that limitation: Use shields.io of course! And that's a service hosted by GitHub and used in many README on GitHub to have badges already, so it fits better actually:

`https://img.shields.io/badge/-Health%20Managment%20%F0%9F%8D%84-2bbbbb` gives:

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Health%20Managment%20%F0%9F%8D%84-2bbbbb)

You can create your owns either my building the URL yourself, or use their dedicated form [here](https://shields.io/#your-badge) – keeping `label` empty but filling the `message` and `color` fields appropriately

- <span style="background-color:#5319e7; color:white; font-weight:600">Healthcheck 👩‍⚕️</span> - any work done in the healthcheck vertical
- <span style="background-color:#25fcb8; color:black; font-weight:600">Payments 💰</span> - any work done in the payments vertical
- <span style="background-color:#d3cb34; color:black; font-weight:600">Prescriptions 💊</span> - any work done in the prescriptions vertical
- <span style="background-color:#f9d0c4; color:black; font-weight:600">SDK 💸</span> - any work done in the SDK vertical
- <span style="background-color:#006b75; color:white; font-weight:600">Triage UI 🏥</span> - any work done in the Triage UI vertical

### <a name="project-horizontals"></a>Project horizontals

> A project horizontal corresponds to an area of the project that has an horizontal impact, means it has impact in most or all the verticals in the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A project horizontal corresponds to an area of the project that has an horizontal impact, meaning it has impact in most or all the verticals in the project.
```

- <span style="background-color:#d4c5f9; color:black; font-weight:600">Automation Tests 🤖</span> - introduction of automation tests

> - <span style="background-color:#a3f7e2; color:black; font-weight:600">Linter 🧹</span> - style guide work

Reviewer 2: this label is to be removed

> - <span style="background-color:#a3f7e2; color:black; font-weight:600">Linter 🧹</span> - style guide work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- <span style="background-color:#fcfc50; color:black; font-weight:600">Localisation 🌐</span> - updating localizable strings or working in the localization system of the project

> - <span style="background-color:#8631bf; color:white; font-weight:600">Infrastructure 🛠</span> - working in the foundation of the project.

Reviewer 2: This one needs clarification. Does that involve refactoring some code without changing functionality (or does that one falls under "Housekeeping")? Does that involve architecture restructuration (but how to differentiate that from refactoring)? Does that involve only tooling (CI, fastlane, Danger, linter, ...)?

> - <span style="background-color:#2fcbe0; color:black; font-weight:600">Tooling 🔨</span> - working in tools like CircleCI, Danger, Linter.

Reviewer 2: The distinction between Infra and Tooling is more clear to me now 👍

### <a name="branding"></a>Branding

> We have several projects that contain a subset of functionalities from the main babylon app. These apps also have different flavours in terms of UI. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have several projects which contain a subset of functionalities from the main babylon app. These apps also have different flavours in terms of UI. 
```

The labels to define work that is done in each different project are:

- <span style="background-color:#1d76db; color:white; font-weight:600">BUPA 🤕</span> - work in the BUPA app
- <span style="background-color:#0052cc; color:white; font-weight:600">NHS 👩‍⚕️</span> - work in the GP and hand app
- <span style="background-color:#9746e2; color:white; font-weight:600">Telus 🇨🇦</span> - work in the Telus app
- <span style="background-color:#2f2799; color:white; font-weight:600">US 🇺🇸</span> - work in the US app

### <a name="stage"></a>Stage

> Informs in which stage of development the PR is. These labels are used to know which PRs can be reviewed. They are also use to trigger our CI jobs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Informs in which stage of development the PR is. These labels are used to know which PRs can be reviewed. They are also used to trigger our CI jobs.
```

> - <a name="merge"></a><span style="background-color:#FF7F50; color:black; font-weight:600">Merge</span> - The PR is ready to be merged. It will be positioned in the queue to wait for our CI system to run all the tests. Only if every test has passed it will be merged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- <a name="merge"></a><span style="background-color:#FF7F50; color:black; font-weight:600">Merge</span> - The PR is ready to be merged. Our bot picks up when that label is added and will automatically add the PR in the queue to merge back develop and wait for our CI system to run all the tests. Only if every test has passed the bot will merge it.
```

> - <a name="merge"></a><span style="background-color:#FF7F50; color:black; font-weight:600">Merge</span> - The PR is ready to be merged. Our bot picks up when this label is added. It will then automatically add the PR in the queue to merge back develop. Once merged it waits for our CI system to run all the tests. Only if every test has passed the bot will merge the PR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- <a name="merge"></a><span style="background-color:#FF7F50; color:black; font-weight:600">Merge</span> - The PR is ready to be merged. Our bot picks up when this label is added. It will then automatically add the PR in the queue to merge the PRs in order. Once dequeued, it will first merge back develop into the PR, then wait for our CI system to run all the tests. Only if every test has passed the bot will finally merge the PR.
```

- <a name="needs_reviewer"></a><span style="background-color:#ce3799; color:white; font-weight:600">Needs one reviewer 🙏</span> - The PR has one approval and is waiting for one more review.
- <a name="ready_review"></a><span style="background-color:#0e8a16; color:white; font-weight:600">Ready for Review 🚀</span> - The work on the PR is finished and it is ready to be reviewed.

> - <a name="in_progress"></a><span style="background-color:#fbca04; color:black; font-weight:600">work in progress 🚧</span> - The work on the PR is not finished and is not ready to be reviewed.

Reviewer: Could you please clarify that WIP and RFR are mutually exclusive? And also, that we don't usually change it back to WIP unless the changes are major

Author: I agree with 
> Could you please clarify that WIP and RFR are mutually exclusive?

However I don't agree with 
> And also, that we don't usually change it back to WIP unless the changes are major

IMO this should be something that the PR owner should do as she/he intends. I don't see the need for having a rule for this.

> - <a name="in_progress"></a><span style="background-color:#fbca04; color:black; font-weight:600">work in progress 🚧</span> - The work on the PR is not finished and is not ready to be reviewed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <a name="in_progress"></a><span style="background-color:#fbca04; color:black; font-weight:600">Work in progress 🚧</span> - The work on the PR is not finished and is not ready to be reviewed.
```

### <a name="status"></a>Status

> Flags if there is something preventing the PR from being merged that is unrelated with review requests or failling builds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flags if there is something preventing the PR from being merged that is unrelated with review requests or failing builds.
```

- <a name="blocked"></a><span style="background-color:#000000; color:white; font-weight:600">Blocked ✋</span> - the PR is waiting for another task to be complete - this task can be a backend task, a product decision or another PR.
- <a name="blocking"></a><span style="background-color:#d93f0b; color:white; font-weight:600">Blocking other PRs 🙅‍♀️</span> - the PR is blocking other PRs from resuming their work or from being merged. The PR with this label should have priority over the PRs that are being blocked by this one.

### <a name="emergency"></a>Emergency
Alerts when a PR is required to be merged. This is used in emergency situations like a hot fix or a piece of work that is mandatory to go in the release that is about to ship.

- <span style="background-color:#e00000; color:white; font-weight:600">Feature at risk 🚑</span> - A PR that has to go in the next release that will ship in 2 days or less. This PR has priority to be reviewed over all the other PRs that are not in emergency.

> - <span style="background-color:#fcc1ba; color:black; font-weight:600">Hotfix 🆘</span> - The PR has priority to be reviewed because it has a hot fix for release that is currently in Production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <span style="background-color:#fcc1ba; color:black; font-weight:600">Hotfix 🆘</span> - The PR has priority to be reviewed because it has a hot fix pointing to the release branch.
```

> - <span style="background-color:#fcc1ba; color:black; font-weight:600">Hotfix 🆘</span> - The PR has priority to be reviewed because it has a hot fix targeted to the current release branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- <span style="background-color:#fcc1ba; color:black; font-weight:600">Hotfix 🆘</span> - The PR has priority to be reviewed because it has a hot fix targeting the current release branch.
```

A PR should always contain at least one label that belongs to these groups. Multiple labels from these groups can be added to a PR because a piece of work can have impact in more than one area.

### [**Stage**](#stage)

In this group a mixed of rules are applied. 
A PR can:

- be either [ready for review](#ready_review) or still [in progress](#in_progress). It can't be in both stages at the same time. This means the labels representing both these stages can't be present in the same instant.
- have [one reviewer](#needs_reviewer) label only if it is [ready for review](#ready_review).
- have [merge](#merge) label only if it is [ready for review](#ready_review), has two approvals and no changes requested.

### [**Status**](#status)

A PR can have one or both of these labels dependending on the blocking chain. However, it is very unusual and not ideal that a PR is in a situation where it needs both labels at the same time.

There is some specific information that is mandatory to be present in the PR description when using:

- [Blocked](#blocked) - Describe the reason why it is blocked. If it is being blocked by another PR or JIRA Ticket, these should be mentioned.

> - [Blocking other PRs](#blocking) - Describe the reason why it is blocking other PRs. It should mentioned which PRs are being blocked by it.

Reviewer 2: Side note: We might want to enforce that via Danger at some point 😉

Reviewer: Yes please!

### [**Emergency**](#emergency)

A PR can only have one emergency label.

### [**Extra**](#extra)

> A PR can have one or more extra labels at the same time.

Reviewer 2: Why is that? I mean one could imagine having a PR that is Trivial + Housekeeping if it just removes a file that is no longer used or similar...

Author: I think you understood it wrong 😛 
It says
> A PR can have one or more extra labels at the same time.

Means it can have Trivial + Housekeeping if you like to.

Reviewer 2: 🤦‍♂ I need coffee. ☕️
